=head1 NAME

SVN::Friendly::Dates - convert subversion times to Perl time

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  # ---------------------------------------------------------------
  # $iAprTime    Apache runtime timestamp, number of microseconds
  #              since 00:00:00 UTC, January 1, 1970
  #
  # $iPrecision  may be any one of the following constants
  #              SVN::Friendly::Dates->DAY
  #              SVN::Friendly::Dates->MINUTE
  #              SVN::Friendly::Dates->SECOND
  #              SVN::Friendly::Dates->USEC
  #
  # $sISOTime     ISO 8601 formatted timestamp provided by subversion
  #              (some functions provide the string rather than
  #               microseconds since epoch time).
  # ---------------------------------------------------------------

  use SVN::Friendly::Dates /.*/;  #import all


  # --------------------------------------------------
  # decompresses ISO time, replaces Z with UTC, e.g.
  #
  # 1970-01-01T00:00:00.000000
  #   DAY    => 1970-01-01
  #   MINUTE => 1970-01-01 00:00 UTC
  #   SECOND => 1970-01-01 00:00:00 UTC
  #   USEC   => 1970-01-01 00:00:00.000000 UTC
  # --------------------------------------------------

  $sTimestamp    = getTimestampFromISO8601($sISOTime, $iPrecision);

  $sTimestamp    = getTimestamp($iAprTime, $iPrecision);

  # --------------------------------------------------
  # local/utc seconds since the epoch in various units
  # --------------------------------------------------

  $iSeconds      = getUtcPerlTime($iAprTime);

  $iNanoseconds  = getUtcNanoTime($iAprTime);

  $iSeconds      = getLocalPerlTime($iAprTime);

  $iMicroseconds = getLocalUsecTime($iAprTime);

  $iNanoseconds  = getLocalNanoTime($iAprTime);


=head1 DESCRIPTION

This class defines tools for converting the timestamps used by
subversion into Perl time.  Subversion uses the apache runtime
library and its timestamps have a different unit (microseconds)
than Perl time which is calculated in non-leap seconds
past 00:00:00 UTC, January 1, 1970.

=head1 VERSION COMPATIBILITY

See L<SVN::Friendly|SVN::Friendly>.

=head1 CAVEATS

None to date.

=head1 KNOWN BUGS

None to date.

=head1 TO DO/ROADMAP

See L<SVN::Friendly|SVN::Friendly>

=head1 VOLUNTEERS

If anyone would like to be involved in testing or expanding the
user friendly interface, please contact the maintainer.

Feedback on the documentation, bugs, usability, or additional
features desired is welcome.  Time and person-power permitting
the most commonly requested features will be implemented.

=head1 SEE ALSO

See L<SVN::Friendly|SVN::Friendly>

=head1 AUTHOR

Elizabeth Grace Frank-Backman

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2008-2011 Elizabeth Grace Frank-Backman. All rights
reserved.

=head1 LICENSE

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.
